Crime in London

Figures on crime in London are based primarily on two sets of statistics: the Crime Survey for England and Wales (CSEW) and police recorded crime data. 
Greater London is generally served by three police forces; the Metropolitan Police which is responsible for policing the vast majority of the capital, 
the City of London Police which is responsible for The Square Mile of the City of London, and the British Transport Police which polices the national 
rail network and the London Underground. A fourth police force in London, the Ministry of Defence Police, do not generally become involved with policing 
the general public. London also has a number of small constabularies for policing parks. Within the Home Office crime statistic publications Greater 
London is referred to as the London Region.

Recording of robbery offences in England and Wales are sub-divided into Business Robbery (robbery of a business, e.g. a bank robbery) and Personal 
Robbery (taking an individuals personal belongings with force/threat). Annually business robbery offences in London account for on average 10% of 
total robbery offences.

Violence Against the Person crime could lead to the highest number of homicides among young people since 2008, when 28 youths were killed, 
if youth violence continues at the current rate, the force said. So far this year, 17 teenagers have been killed in London - despite serious 
violent offences falling by 22% and a drop in the overall murder rate.

It’s correct that when stop and search was used more widely it led to a higher total number of arrests. But back in 2010, when stop and search 
was at its peak, the arrest rate was also significantly lower.  Even then, it’s difficult from these figures to judge how effective stop and 
searches are as it assumes that they’re only successful when they lead to arrests.

Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire & Rescue Services notes that an arrest isn't necessarily a success, nor is a failure to 
uncover any wrongdoing necessarily a failure.

Mr Johnson specifically referred to the success of Operation BLUNT 2, a Metropolitan Police initiative from 2009-2011 that tried to reduce 
knife crime by increasing stop and searches for weapons. A Home Office evaluation in 2016 found "that the greater use of weapons searches 
was not effective at the borough level for reducing crime.”

